[docs-revamp] - Clean up API connections guide (#24408)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/apis.md

---
title: Connecting to APIs
sidebar_position: 20
sidebar_label: API connections
---

When building a data pipeline, you'll likely need to connect to several external APIs, each with its own specific configuration and behavior. This guide demonstrates how to standardize your API connections and customize their configuration using Dagster resources.

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Assets](/concepts/assets)
- Familiarity with [Resources](/concepts/resources)
- To install the `requests` library:
    ```bash
    pip install requests
    ```

</details>

## Step 1: Write a resource that connects to an API

This example fetches the sunrise time for a given location from a REST API.

Using `ConfigurableResource`, define a Dagster resource with a method that returns the sunrise time for a location. In the first version of this resource, the location is hard-coded to San Francisco International Airport.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/external-systems/apis/minimal_resource.py" language="python" />

## Step 2: Use the resource in an asset

> To use the resource, provide it as a parameter to an asset after including it in the `Definitions` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the resource, provide it as a parameter to an asset and include it in the `Definitions` object:
```
